README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp/raw/main/enveye-frontend/src/assets/logo_96x96.png" alt="EnvEye Logo" width="120" height="120"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center">EnvEye - Intelligent Snapshot Comparator</h1>

<p align="center">
  💻 Compare. 🤔 Analyze. 🚀 Fix. <br/>
  <em>Debugging environments smarter & faster.</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp"><img alt="Built With" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-React%20%7C%20FastAPI%20%7C%20OpenAI-blue?style=for-the-badge"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp/blob/main/LICENSE"><img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/usertbera/enveye-mvp?style=for-the-badge"/></a>
  <img alt="Made with Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python%20%7C%20React-informational?style=for-the-badge"/>
  <img alt="OCR Enabled" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OCR%20Support-Tesseract-informational?style=for-the-badge"/>
</p>

---

## 📈 Project Overview

**EnvEye** is a smart debugging assistant for IT environments.  
It compares snapshots of system states (e.g., two VMs) and highlights key differences.  
Powered by **OpenAI**, it explains issues and suggests fixes instantly.

Built for developers, DevOps, and IT support teams — to accelerate troubleshooting and root cause analysis.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://youtu.be/kbgjsI6xAjk" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eef63ec5-aa2c-41a0-8665-15e77cf7264a" alt="EnvEye Demo Video" width="600" style="border-radius: 8px;"/>
    <br>
    <strong>▶️ Watch Demo Video</strong>
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📸 Screenshots

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eef63ec5-aa2c-41a0-8665-15e77cf7264a)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c6b2a7cf-9d54-4c9b-b900-de3bc46dd945)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39905967-9c60-4c65-a49a-c7e895c78a04)

---
## 🛠️ EnvEye Architecture Diagram

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6386b028-fc17-45d5-8e9c-ac0748c1a6db" alt="EnvEye Architecture Diagram" width="600"/>
</p>

----
## 🏆 Why EnvEye Matters

**EnvEye empowers IT support teams and developers to dramatically reduce Mean Time To Resolution (MTTR)** by automating the discovery of environment-related issues. Instead of manually inspecting configurations, services, DLLs, or logs, teams can rely on EnvEye’s intelligent comparison and AI-powered diagnostics.

### 💡 Real-World Use Case

> A support engineer receives a critical bug report from staging: “It worked yesterday.”  
> Using EnvEye, they instantly compare snapshots from today and yesterday, OCR a provided error screenshot, and get GPT-generated insights into the root cause — saving hours of guesswork and back-and-forth debugging.

### ✅ Aligned with Microsoft AI Ecosystem

- Built with **Azure-compatible architecture** — can be easily adapted to use Azure OpenAI endpoints.
- Designed as a modular **agent**, consistent with Microsoft's vision for autonomous, intelligent assistants.
- Deployable in **Azure Functions**, container apps, or internal IT pipelines for scalable enterprise use.

---
## 🧆 Key Features

- 💾 **Snapshot Collection**: Remote/manual VM snapshot capture.
- 🔍 **DeepDiff Comparison**: Detects changes across OS, DLLs, services, configs.
- 🧠 **AI-Powered Analysis**: Smart diagnosis using GPT.
- 🖼️ **Screenshot Debugging**: Upload an error screenshot – OCR extracts the message!
- 📁 **Log Path Support**: Mention a backend-accessible log file path for full AI context.
- 📋 **Clean & Friendly UI**: View, upload, download snapshots effortlessly.
- ✉️ **Error Message Assistance**: Input or upload errors to get pinpointed AI help.

---

## 🚀 Tech Stack

| Layer       | Techs Used                            |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Frontend    | React + Vite + TailwindCSS            |
| Backend     | FastAPI (Python)                      |
| AI Model    | OpenAI GPT                 |
| OCR Engine  | Tesseract OCR (via pytesseract)       |
| Collector   | Python Agent using WinRM              |
| Diff Engine | DeepDiff (Python)                     |

---

## 🔍 How It Works

1. 📥 **Collect Snapshots**: Capture environment context (services, registry, DLLs, configs).
2. 🔍 **Upload & Compare**: Upload two snapshots to generate a DeepDiff report.
3. 🧾 **Input Error Context** (Optional):
   - Paste an error message
   - Upload a screenshot (auto OCR)
   - Or provide a **log file path** accessible to the backend
4. 🧠 **Request AI Help**: All inputs are sent to GPT for analysis.
5. 🛠️ **Get Solutions**: Receive probable causes and intelligent suggestions.

---

## 🌐 Local Setup Instructions

### 👉 Frontend Setup
```bash
cd enveye-frontend
npm install
npm run build
npm run preview
```

**📍 Important:**  
Update the backend IP address in `enveye-frontend/src/api.js`:
```javascript
export const API_BASE_URL = "http://<your-backend-ip>:8000";
```

---

### 👉 Backend Setup
```bash
cd enveye-backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

**Environment Variable Required:**
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here  # Linux/Mac
set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here     # Windows
```

**Optional: Install OCR Dependencies**
```bash
sudo apt install tesseract-ocr         # Linux
brew install tesseract                 # macOS
choco install tesseract                # Windows (via Chocolatey)
```

---

### 👉 Collector Agent Setup (Optional)
```bash
cd collector
python collector_agent.py --app-folder "C:\Program Files\YourApp" --app-type desktop --upload-url http://<backend-ip>:8000/upload_snapshot
```

---

## ⚙️ WinRM Setup for Remote Collection

To enable remote snapshot collection:

1. Copy `collector_agent.exe` to the target VM (e.g., `C:\Tools\Collector`)
2. On the VM, **run the following PowerShell script once**:

```powershell
# WinRMFixScript.PS1
Write-Host "🔧 Configuring WinRM..." -ForegroundColor Cyan
winrm quickconfig -q
winrm set winrm/config/service '@{AllowUnencrypted="true"}'
winrm set winrm/config/service/auth '@{Basic="true"}'
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow WinRM (HTTP 5985)" -Name "AllowWinRM" -Protocol TCP -LocalPort 5985 -Action Allow
Write-Host "
🔎 Current Listeners:" -ForegroundColor Green
winrm enumerate winrm/config/listener
Write-Host "
✅ WinRM Setup Completed Successfully!" -ForegroundColor Green
```

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
/enveye-frontend     # React frontend (Vite based)
/enveye-backend      # FastAPI backend
/collector           # Python agent for snapshot collection
```

---

## ⚡ Limitations

- Currently supports only **Windows VMs**.
- Large snapshots (>10MB) may slightly slow comparisons.
- AI diagnosis is best-effort — manual validation recommended.
- Log path analysis requires backend to have read access.

---

## 🌈 Future Enhancements

- 🐧 Linux and macOS snapshot support.
- 🔥 AI-prioritized diff summaries.
- 📦 Batch snapshot comparison support.
- 🪵 Smart log scanning (pattern detection, timestamps, etc.)

---
## 🌩️ Cloud-Native Vision (Roadmap)

As infrastructure continues to evolve toward the cloud, EnvEye is designed to evolve with it. Snapshot-based debugging remains a **critical tool** in modern, distributed systems — and we’re building toward native cloud support.

### 🔭 Planned Cloud Integrations:

| Goal                             | Description |
|----------------------------------|-------------|
| ☁️ **Cloud VM Support**         | Support for snapshot collection from **AWS EC2**, **Azure VMs**, and **GCP Compute Engine** — using native APIs (SSM, Azure RunCommand, etc.) |
| 🐧 **Linux-Based Snapshot Agents** | Extend the agent to support **Linux VMs** via SSH and shell collectors |
| 📦 **Docker & Kubernetes Snapshots** | Capture and compare environment state inside **containers** and **K8s pods** — such as env vars, mounts, and sidecar configs |
| ⚙️ **Cloud Log Integration**     | Fetch relevant logs directly from **CloudWatch**, **Azure Monitor**, or **GCP Logging** when a path or tag is provided |
| 🔁 **GitOps & CI/CD Awareness** | Compare snapshots against known-good state from a GitOps repo or before/after deployment scripts |
| 🧠 **AI Root Cause for Cloud Drift** | Use AI to explain mismatches in multi-region, auto-scaled deployments or ephemeral node pools |

> ✨ Whether it's a Windows VM, a Linux container, or a dynamic microservice — EnvEye will help you debug it faster.

---
## 📅 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- 🧠 OpenAI 
- ⚡ DeepDiff for intelligent diffing
- 🧾 Tesseract OCR
- ❤️ Open-source community inspirations

---

> Made with passion to simplify IT and DevOps life! 🚀

Commit message:

Added flag option in AI explanation

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp/raw/main/enveye-frontend/src/assets/logo_96x96.png" alt="EnvEye Logo" width="120" height="120"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center">EnvEye - Intelligent Snapshot Comparator</h1>

<p align="center">
  💻 Compare. 🤔 Analyze. 🚀 Fix. <br/>
  <em>Debugging environments smarter & faster.</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp"><img alt="Built With" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-React%20%7C%20FastAPI%20%7C%20OpenAI-blue?style=for-the-badge"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/usertbera/enveye-mvp/blob/main/LICENSE"><img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/usertbera/enveye-mvp?style=for-the-badge"/></a>
  <img alt="Made with Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python%20%7C%20React-informational?style=for-the-badge"/>
  <img alt="OCR Enabled" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OCR%20Support-Tesseract-informational?style=for-the-badge"/>
</p>

---

## 📈 Project Overview

**EnvEye** is a smart debugging assistant for IT environments.  
It compares snapshots of system states (e.g., two VMs) and highlights key differences.  
Powered by **OpenAI**, it explains issues and suggests fixes instantly.

Built for developers, DevOps, and IT support teams — to accelerate troubleshooting and root cause analysis.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://youtu.be/kbgjsI6xAjk" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eef63ec5-aa2c-41a0-8665-15e77cf7264a" alt="EnvEye Demo Video" width="600" style="border-radius: 8px;"/>
    <br>
    <strong>▶️ Watch Demo Video</strong>
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📸 Screenshots

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eef63ec5-aa2c-41a0-8665-15e77cf7264a)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c6b2a7cf-9d54-4c9b-b900-de3bc46dd945)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39905967-9c60-4c65-a49a-c7e895c78a04)

---
## 🛠️ EnvEye Architecture Diagram

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6386b028-fc17-45d5-8e9c-ac0748c1a6db" alt="EnvEye Architecture Diagram" width="600"/>
</p>

----
## 🏆 Why EnvEye Matters

**EnvEye empowers IT support teams and developers to dramatically reduce Mean Time To Resolution (MTTR)** by automating the discovery of environment-related issues. Instead of manually inspecting configurations, services, DLLs, or logs, teams can rely on EnvEye’s intelligent comparison and AI-powered diagnostics.

### 💡 Real-World Use Case

> A support engineer receives a critical bug report from staging: “It worked yesterday.”  
> Using EnvEye, they instantly compare snapshots from today and yesterday, OCR a provided error screenshot, and get GPT-generated insights into the root cause — saving hours of guesswork and back-and-forth debugging.

### ✅ Aligned with Microsoft AI Ecosystem

- Built with **Azure-compatible architecture** — can be easily adapted to use Azure OpenAI endpoints.
- Designed as a modular **agent**, consistent with Microsoft's vision for autonomous, intelligent assistants.
- Deployable in **Azure Functions**, container apps, or internal IT pipelines for scalable enterprise use.

---
## 🧆 Key Features

- 💾 **Snapshot Collection**: Remote/manual VM snapshot capture.
- 🔍 **DeepDiff Comparison**: Detects changes across OS, DLLs, services, configs.
- 🧠 **AI-Powered Analysis**: Smart diagnosis using GPT.
- 🖼️ **Screenshot Debugging**: Upload an error screenshot – OCR extracts the message!
- 📁 **Log Path Support**: Mention a backend-accessible log file path for full AI context.
- 📋 **Clean & Friendly UI**: View, upload, download snapshots effortlessly.
- ✉️ **Error Message Assistance**: Input or upload errors to get pinpointed AI help.

---

## 🚀 Tech Stack

| Layer       | Techs Used                            |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Frontend    | React + Vite + TailwindCSS            |
| Backend     | FastAPI (Python)                      |
| AI Model    | OpenAI GPT                 |
| OCR Engine  | Tesseract OCR (via pytesseract)       |
| Collector   | Python Agent using WinRM              |
| Diff Engine | DeepDiff (Python)                     |

---

## 🔍 How It Works

1. 📥 **Collect Snapshots**: Capture environment context (services, registry, DLLs, configs).
2. 🔍 **Upload & Compare**: Upload two snapshots to generate a DeepDiff report.
3. 🧾 **Input Error Context** (Optional):
   - Paste an error message
   - Upload a screenshot (auto OCR)
   - Or provide a **log file path** accessible to the backend
4. 🧠 **Request AI Help**: All inputs are sent to GPT for analysis.
5. 🛠️ **Get Solutions**: Receive probable causes and intelligent suggestions.

---

## 🌐 Local Setup Instructions

### 👉 Frontend Setup
```bash
cd enveye-frontend
npm install
npm run build
npm run preview
```

**📍 Important:**  
Update the backend IP address in `enveye-frontend/src/api.js`:
```javascript
export const API_BASE_URL = "http://<your-backend-ip>:8000";
```

---

### 👉 Backend Setup
```bash
cd enveye-backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

**Environment Variable Required:**
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here  # Linux/Mac
set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here     # Windows
```

**Optional: Install OCR Dependencies**
```bash
sudo apt install tesseract-ocr         # Linux
brew install tesseract                 # macOS
choco install tesseract                # Windows (via Chocolatey)
```

---

### 👉 Collector Agent Setup (Optional)
```bash
cd collector
python collector_agent.py --app-folder "C:\Program Files\YourApp" --app-type desktop --upload-url http://<backend-ip>:8000/upload_snapshot
```

---

## ⚙️ WinRM Setup for Remote Collection

To enable remote snapshot collection:

1. Copy `collector_agent.exe` to the target VM (e.g., `C:\Tools\Collector`)
2. On the VM, **run the following PowerShell script once**:

```powershell
# WinRMFixScript.PS1
Write-Host "🔧 Configuring WinRM..." -ForegroundColor Cyan
winrm quickconfig -q
winrm set winrm/config/service '@{AllowUnencrypted="true"}'
winrm set winrm/config/service/auth '@{Basic="true"}'
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow WinRM (HTTP 5985)" -Name "AllowWinRM" -Protocol TCP -LocalPort 5985 -Action Allow
Write-Host "
🔎 Current Listeners:" -ForegroundColor Green
winrm enumerate winrm/config/listener
Write-Host "
✅ WinRM Setup Completed Successfully!" -ForegroundColor Green
```

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
/enveye-frontend     # React frontend (Vite based)
/enveye-backend      # FastAPI backend
/collector           # Python agent for snapshot collection
```
---
### 🤖➕🧑‍🏫 Feedback-Driven AI (Human-in-the-Loop)

EnvEye isn't just smart — it's learning-friendly.

Every AI explanation can be flagged by the user as inaccurate, making the tool safer and more responsible. This allows for:

- ✅ Human-in-the-loop review of misdiagnoses
- ✅ Transparent debugging and traceability
- ✅ Collection of edge cases for future model improvement

> 🙋‍♂️ **See something wrong? Just flag it.**

---

## ⚡ Limitations

- Currently supports only **Windows VMs**.
- Large snapshots (>10MB) may slightly slow comparisons.
- AI diagnosis is best-effort — manual validation recommended.
- Log path analysis requires backend to have read access.

---

## 🌈 Future Enhancements

- 🐧 Linux and macOS snapshot support.
- 🔥 AI-prioritized diff summaries.
- 📦 Batch snapshot comparison support.
- 🪵 Smart log scanning (pattern detection, timestamps, etc.)

---
## 🌩️ Cloud-Native Vision (Roadmap)

As infrastructure continues to evolve toward the cloud, EnvEye is designed to evolve with it. Snapshot-based debugging remains a **critical tool** in modern, distributed systems — and we’re building toward native cloud support.

### 🔭 Planned Cloud Integrations:

| Goal                             | Description |
|----------------------------------|-------------|
| ☁️ **Cloud VM Support**         | Support for snapshot collection from **AWS EC2**, **Azure VMs**, and **GCP Compute Engine** — using native APIs (SSM, Azure RunCommand, etc.) |
| 🐧 **Linux-Based Snapshot Agents** | Extend the agent to support **Linux VMs** via SSH and shell collectors |
| 📦 **Docker & Kubernetes Snapshots** | Capture and compare environment state inside **containers** and **K8s pods** — such as env vars, mounts, and sidecar configs |
| ⚙️ **Cloud Log Integration**     | Fetch relevant logs directly from **CloudWatch**, **Azure Monitor**, or **GCP Logging** when a path or tag is provided |
| 🔁 **GitOps & CI/CD Awareness** | Compare snapshots against known-good state from a GitOps repo or before/after deployment scripts |
| 🧠 **AI Root Cause for Cloud Drift** | Use AI to explain mismatches in multi-region, auto-scaled deployments or ephemeral node pools |

> ✨ Whether it's a Windows VM, a Linux container, or a dynamic microservice — EnvEye will help you debug it faster.

---
## 📅 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- 🧠 OpenAI 
- ⚡ DeepDiff for intelligent diffing
- 🧾 Tesseract OCR
- ❤️ Open-source community inspirations

---

> Made with passion to simplify IT and DevOps life! 🚀
